feat(docs): update site for P3 (#58)
CraneStation/wasi.dev: docs/releases/index.md

---
title: "Releases"
sidebar_position: 2
---

## Modules and components

WebAssembly binaries may be **components** built according to the [Component Model](https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/) or **modules** built to the core WebAssembly specification. 

As you begin writing a Wasm application using WASI APIs, one of your first decisions will be which type of binary you want to produce. This decision is typically guided by your use case and the runtime you wish to use. Check to see which WASI releases your runtime supports. 

* **Components** can use WASI P2 or P3 and the Component Model for composability and interoperability, meaning that a WebAssembly component compiled from one language (Rust, for example) can communicate or be combined with a component compiled from another language (such as Go). WASI P3 adds native async support, building on the foundation established in WASI P2.

> * **Modules** can use APIs from WASI P1, an earlier stage of WASI's development. Since WASI P2 was released in February 2024, WASI P1 support is more widespread among Wasm runtimes, and it is widely used in production today. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Modules** can use APIs from WASI P1, an earlier stage of WASI's development. Since WASI P2 was released end of January 2024, WASI P1 support is more widespread among Wasm runtimes, and it is widely used in production today. 
```

## WASI releases

| Release | Status | Description |
| ------- | ------ | ----------- |

> | [WASI P3](wasi-p3.md) | Release candidate | Native async support with `async func`, `stream<T>`, and `future<T>`; refactored WASI P2 interfaces |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [WASI P3](wasi-p3.md) | Stable | Native async support with `async func`, `stream<T>`, and `future<T>`; refactored WASI P2 interfaces |
```
